Basically,
the curriculum follows the generalist with a
specialty model, which originally was described
by Harvey Perloff. So that was never really
changed. So there's always been a fairly large
core seven or eight courses. And then maybe about
five specialty areas that students are supposed
to pick from the, I think they take like four
courses in each one. And some of the content of
these changed. With the curriculum review there
was some change. Now they may have made some
substantial changes since I left. I'm not real up
to date on it. The program is very heavy in
quantitative methods. Terry Kahn teaches two
semester sequence, which is required. And then I
taught a course in more applied methods, which
really dealt with things like population and
economic forecasting. Terry's courses were
pretty strictly statistics and calculus and
linear programming. And he's a very popular
teacher. So those actually, many years, those got
the highest evaluations of all the courses in the
curriculum. And then Terry, while I was there,
Dean Box started a teaching award, teaching
prize. And I guess the last year I was there, I think
in 81, Terry got the teaching award for the School
of Architecture, which I think Dean Box got $1,000
cash. award to go with it. He always seemed to be
able to get money. We want to give $500 every year
for this. Will you sign up to do it for the rest of
your life? So
I think that's true. And then I remember the
change. We put in an economics course. We made that
required. And Sandy Rosenblum had been teaching
that for several years. There's not really a lot of
theory in it. You don't have a theory course? Well,
we had an urban and regional theory course. Who
taught that? I taught it for about two years. I kind
of taught regional economics. But then Pat
Salinas-Wilson taught it. And she's a radical
planner. And she used kind of Marxist-type
material and all. So she did a quite different
thing.
Neither is taught as a quantitative course. So
it's not really a regional science type course. If
you consider regional science to be
mathematically oriented, which they of course do
at the Association of Regional Scientists. Yeah,
they say Tom Reiner is famous as the only
non-quantitative regional scientist.
Yeah. Well, okay, so you had, and then what did
Peter Koltman teach? Well, Peter,
let's see, when I, he had kind of his own group of
courses when,
when I arrived there, the several were
environmental planning area, and they were kind
of Ian McHarr type courses. They were landscape
analysis, and then he had, I think one in English
planning and one in New Towns, something kind of
based upon some of his own experience,
which I guess maybe some of it was in South Africa,
maybe some in Great Britain. You'd have to kind of
tell me about that. And those, apparently one
time, those were quite popular. But at the time I
arrived there, the enrollment got very low in
those courses, and people weren't interested in
New Towns anymore. And so his courses had changed
quite a bit. And eventually, he put in a studio, a
two semester studio as a terminal option. And he
taught that course. And he was doing that when I
left him. Originally, everybody had to do a
thesis. And they had the same problem. that half
the people never finished. So then they put in a
professional report, which was supposed to be an
easier version. And I think it only gave three
hours credit. And that helped a little, but
there's still a third of the students were never
finishing. That's what we have now. Well, it's not
too bad. So we finally decided to put in a third
option, which was to take a studio course, because
there had never been a required studio in the time I
was there. That's interesting, because A&M was
always- For so many years, there wasn't a single
studio course. A&M was always required, too.
Yeah.
Okay, so Peter Coleman had been teaching that
studio course for a while. And also he taught, I
think, an undergraduate architecture course.
They were always trying to make sure that each of
the specialties had a qualified person in it. And
that was always important in picking the faculty.
And transportation planning was always one of the
specialties. And that was one reason why they
hired me. Sandy Rosenblum also teaches in
transportation, but she's non-quantitative,
basically non-technical. She has a PhD in
political science from UCLA. And so her courses
are very policy-oriented, and they deal with
legal background and social issues. So she's
always taught at least one transportation
course, which particularly interest.
Paratransit is one. She's one of the leading
experts on taxis in the country. And she's dealt a
lot of transportation to the elderly and
handicapped. I taught the more technical and
quantitative transportation courses. There was
also an option in environmental planning. And we
finally decided that Peter Coleman really didn't
have a kind of background. To do that adequately,
he didn't really have any biology background, any
natural science. So we went out specifically
looking for someone while I was there, and we hired
Ken Butler. He came from Wisconsin. I
thought he was an outstanding faculty member. He
developed like four new courses. and
environmental planning that we'd never had
before.
There was a policy course. There were technical
courses. He did one in coastal zone management,
which I think he finally had a job because the
federal government killed the program and it
became irrelevant. But he did that. And he worked
in Galveston and Corpus Christi and some of those
places. He did some consulting on that. And he,
after I left, he got tenure. And then Gus went with
the lower Colorado River Authority, whatever. I
don't know what's happened to him. He's still
there. He's still there, I think. We also had
Maureen McReynolds sometimes taught a course,
who was the City of Austin's Director of
Environmental Management. They always had... A
few practitioners that would teach. Sometimes if
there was a temporary vacancy, we'd bring in
practitioners. Dick Lilly was taught regularly
for all the time I was there. First one course a
year, and then later a course every semester. What
did he teach? He taught a, it was kind of a course in
the master plan. Basically, I think that was the
course he taught every year was I think they
basically went through the process of how to
prepare a master plan.
That sort of leads into this discussion with the
relationship between architecture and
planning. Since the planning faculty at Texas you
know, went to a lot of lengths to distance
themselves from old-fashioned physical
planning. And the same thing is going on in Kansas,
too. And I guess many schools... Well, it happened
in Berkeley for a while. Yes. Well, it's probably
still going on. I don't know if it's resolved or
complex or not. So, part of this... manifested
itself in Austin and basically this huge division
between the architecture faculty and the
planning faculty. They kind of ignored each
other. And while I was there, we were in different
buildings. The planning faculty was all in Sutton
Hall. Most of the architecture faculty were in the
old building, which I think now is called
Goldsmith Hall. And certainly the dean's office
was in Goldsmith Hall, so we never saw him. And I
guess that Peter Colvin was in kind of an awkward
position because he was one of the old fashioned
types and he was sort of caught in the middle and
wasn't really successful as a bridge. Also a lot of
it had to do with trying to get away from the image of
Hugo Leipziger Pierce. And these people that were
there when I was there, felt that he had given a very
bad image to the planning program in Austin. And
they wanted to make sure everybody was different.
Now, I don't
know enough about what went on, but I understand
Hugo kind of promoted the 701 program throughout
the state of Texas. And I think he had a huge
collection of 701 master plans that he gave to the
library in Austin and all. But as I said, some of the
younger people who came along, they kind of
emphasized there was a social science type
curriculum. You would call it a word curriculum. I
don't know how to say that, because they emphasize
the quantitative methods a lot, too. So it's words
and numbers, but not much drawing. So there's very
little of that. We'll try to change that back some.
It's not a matter of drawing, though. My point is
not that. It's a matter of that. sooner or later,
decision makers are going to have to make
vocational choices. And they can't do it on the
basis of simply a lot of policies. They've got to
have something a bit more definitive than that.
And I think that that's Jack Kent's point, too. The
problem with Jack Kent, as I see it, is he forgets
the social and economic inputs to it, pretty much.
Not entirely. very interested in drawing a firm
boundary. I never agreed with him on that. In fact,
even back in 1958, 59, most of the students
disagreed with him. Yeah. Well, he knows I do, too,
and we're having problems. I thought Jack was very
fair that you could write an essay that took the
opposite position from Jack's. If you thought it
was a good essay, he'd give you an A. He didn't
insist the students agreed with him. Well, he's
changing a little bit. Well, let me, let's see, get
back to Texas and let's see. Well, yeah, the
organization is a little strange because the
planning program doesn't really fit in anywhere.
Basically, there's a school of architecture.
There is no department of architecture. There's
no program in architecture. And actually, Hal Box
is the head of architecture. But then there is this
other little thing, which is the community
planning program. It's a program. It's a program.
And it doesn't have control of its own budget, does
it? No, it doesn't. That's controlled out of the
dean's office. Yes, it's done out of the dean's
office. So you don't really have a department
head. Terry Kahn does not function as a department
head. No, he's not a department head. He's a
program director? Yes, I think that's right. Now,
this is not unusual, not to have all this autonomy.
But basically, they're in a completely anomalous
position. They're just an oddity. And you see here
in Kansas right now, we don't have departments.
We're in a college of architecture. There are
three programs. There's planning, there's
architecture, and there's architectural
engineering. But we're equal. We each have our own
director, or I guess it's called chair now, and we
each have the same limitations with regard to
autonomy. But that's not true in Texas. You see,
architecture... is it, except there's this
little, you know, little boil on the surface of the
skin of the program, which is planning, and it just
doesn't fit in anywhere. Yeah. So you're always
sort of a stepchild. Yeah. And I don't know, I think
the accreditation visit came up after I left, and
you say this was a source of problems. I can believe
that's true. I understand from faculty at UT
Arlington that they do not expect to be
reaccredited. Either Austin doesn't or
Arlington doesn't? Arlington. Arlington is
quite small. It might not have enough faculty.
Well, I think it has to do with resources and with
administrative structure, too.
So anyway,
We always complain at A&M about things, but by
comparison, I guess that our structure is
extremely clear. Well, that's really pretty
hazy. And Hal Box never went to graduate school.
He just has a Bachelor of Architecture and then
went into practice. So he has always had a lot of
trouble understanding what planning was doing.
And I don't think he understands too much what goes
on in graduate school.
So OK, well, Terry Kahn never studied planning.
But he is from Texas. And I think got his bachelor's
and master's in the business school of Texas. And
then went to Berkeley and got a PhD. And was
involved in the real estate program at Berkeley.
And basically, he knows a lot about real estate and
teaches courses that deal with that. He's very
loyal to the private sector. He probably studied
under Paul Wendt in the real estate research.
That's quite possible. But he was always kind of a
specialist in quantitative methods. So while his
degree says something like land economics or real
estate, he was almost really a student of
quantitative methods. So he teaches, as I say,
both those methods courses, which are very
popular. And then his other courses usually have
to do with land use, but tend to be not from the
regulatory viewpoint, but from the developer
viewpoint. A lot of students are interested in
that. I mean, we always had quite a few students who
were going into planning because they wanted to
become millionaires. I don't know how it is at A&M.
Well, we have a new degree, the Master of Science in
Land Development. Which takes care of that.
Formally recognized it. Yeah, it's a specialty
master of science degree. I want to ask you, at UT
Austin, are the students required to have an
internship? No. I don't think very many schools
require that because they can't place the
students. We do. You do require them? Oh, yes.
Well, do they get paid for the internships? Yes,
they get paid about $1,200 a month.
No, I think most programs gave that up when it
became hard to find jobs.
So they don't. They did give some academic credit
for people who worked. They gave up to nine hours,
even. Oh, we only give two. The only exceptions to
that are some of our international students. who
would not benefit by American practice
or would have trouble finding an internship
because they're not citizens. McClure came
along, and his own particular specialty was
planning law. We didn't really have anybody to
teach that before. But when we changed the
curriculum, we made that a required course. Of
course, everybody likes to have their subject
required.
And he apparently did very well in that. He knew the
subject very thoroughly. Then he also taught an
elective seminar in growth management.
So that was kind of the area that he went in for a
while.
All right. Well, let me talk about the students a
little bit. There are a lot of very good students at
Austin. And there are a lot of people who want to
come to Texas, of course. And a lot of them
particularly want to come to Austin. So they
probably get better students than they deserve to
have. They have a lot of people with Ivy League
degrees, and people from the Big Ten, and Pacific
Coast schools, and so forth. Not a whole lot of
foreign students. That was fairly small.
Probably the best student I ever had there was an
Italian student, including He's English, which
is very good.
Most of the applicants are from Texas. I would say
at least half of the people are living in Austin
already at the time they applied the program. A lot
of them are Northeasterners or Midwesterners who
have come down there and lived in Austin for a year
or two and decided to go to graduate school. There
are also a lot of other applications from around
Texas. I would say at least two-thirds of the
applications are from Texas. And the others are
all kind of scattered. There are quite a few from
Southern California, I think. There seem to be
quite a few students. Where do they go after they
get their degrees? Well, of course, they go all
over. But the majority of them work in Texas. It
seems like that most of them want to stay in Austin.
I mean, almost everybody loves Austin. And all the
agencies in Austin have quite a few of them there.
But they're kind of scattered around Texas.
I guess there are a few in the Houston area. I think
there are probably more in the Dallas-Fort Worth
area. But some of them go all around the country,
too. Do they generally take government-type
planning jobs or in the private sector? Or how does
it fall? I think there's more interest in the
private sector than in most planning schools. As I
say, there are quite a few that are
money-oriented. There are some whose fathers are
developers. And we've had
some, according to rumor, some of the students,
their fathers were worth tens of millions of
dollars. all made in land use development. Well, I
hope they still have it with the turndown. Yeah, I
don't know about that. So I would say that the
majority do go into the public sector jobs. But I
think there's probably a larger number that are
interested in the private sector than in the
typical planning program. There's one question I
have to ask about the program in closing. And that
is, I have heard it rumored that there is no history
of planning course at the University of Texas at
Austin. No, I don't think so. You mean a whole
course in the history of planning? No, there's no
course like that. Shocking. I don't think, most
programs, we don't have a course like that at
Kansas either. Shocking. Well, I can come up and
teach it. Well, of course. A fellow at Ohio State is
doing that on a contract basis. Yeah, Larry
Gerkins. Larry Gerkins, right. He's very good.
Yes, he came out to Kansas City last fall. Yeah,
he's excellent. Okay. Some of the students have
done very well. I guess Sally Shipman is one of the
most successful students. It happened... I guess
about... Sally Shipman is currently a city
council person in Austin. It happens about, I
think it was about four years ago, I was nominated
to run for the National Board of Directors of APA,
and when I asked, I guess Ed Stolman called me up,
and I asked who was running against me, and they
said, well, some woman I don't know named Sally
Shipman. Both from the same city. No, I was living
in Kansas. Oh, you were in Kansas at that time. I was
in Kansas, and he didn't know her. And the lawyer
said, that was one of my students. She was on her
thesis committee.
Well, she won very handily in that. There was a time
when there was a lot of conflict, and there was a
petition candidate, too. But she won that
election. So she's quite well known nationally,
too.
Ellen. want to thank you for your time and for your
very valuable input to this project. I'm sure it
will make it far more richer and more accurate and
more interesting. All right. Glad to do that.
Thank you.